# Ober cab services

## Logic

Each rider has a waiting array.  
When it arrives it scans the cab array for any cab is available.  
If yes, then it takes it.  
Otherwise, it indicates in its waiting array whether it wants to ride. Then, as soon as any cab becomes free, that cab will scan through the riders and send a conditional signal to the rider which was waiting. This way that rider will immediately get a chance to book that free cab.
Using `pthread_cond_timedwait` I am ensuring that the rider times out if required.

I have used semaphores to process the payments. Each server is waiting on a zero sempahore, and clients do a sem post everytime they want to do a payment.

There are two mutexes, one for checking cab and one for checking payments. Each rider and each cab has to acquire the mutex before they can make changes to the cab allocation. Similarly, the servers have to obtain the payments mutex before they can process payments from the riders.

```cpp
void startAndEndRide(cab* cab, rider* rider) {
void endRide(cab* cab, rider* rider) {
void acceptRide(cab* cab, int rideType, int rideTime) {
int usefulCab(int reqCab, int currState) {
void bookCab(rider* rider) {
cab* findCab(rider* rider) {
void* initRider(void* riderTemp) {
```

all functions are self explanatory and do what they say

## Files

1. **colors.h** - defines various colors used
2. **common.h** - common global variables and heade rfiles
3. Rest all different headers and C source files occur in pairs.
4. Three files defined based on the question specifications.
5. A makefile for compilation.
6. **main.c** - for running simulation

